# Schat!

Schat is a simple practise project created by me using java. It allows for creating accounts, signing into accounts and chatting with your fellow Schat users!

## Database and user data management

Schat interfaces with MySql to store and manage accounts under the hood. The logins tables doesn't yet store passwords as hashes but this feature is something I plan to implement later. The chats are stored in the 'chats' table in the database, where the usernames column shares a foreign key contraint to the usernames column in the logins table. This makes sure that there aren't any orphan chat entries in the chats table.

Interfacing is done with the help of JDBC java library.

## Networking

The HTTP web server is hosted with the help of Jetty (another java library). It allows for routing connection to various little servlet objects created at the initialisation based on the request type. It makes the overall experience of back-end programming extremely convinient, dynamic and organised.

## Session management

The session management is done by storing a dedicated session ID cookie in the client's browser. As it suggests, it stores a random session id generated by the server after a successful login attempt. The same session id is stored with the server which can be later used to verify a connected client's authorisation status.

## Front-end

The front-end of the web app mainly consists of HTML, CSS and Javascript. The login and registration page is quite simple and most of the logic is handled in the back-end. The home page of the web app has a quite simple logic programmed which is capable of dynamically adding the loaded chats into the web page.

Honourable mention to Milligram, the css framework I used to style my web pages.

# Conclusion!

It was a short term project which took no more than 5 days to complete. I don't have any future prospects of continuing with this project. The aim was to have a basic idea as to how web features like signing in, registering and session management works, I beleive it has fulfilled it's job in that regard.

Thanks for reading and consider checking out my other projects!